Hi, Mystery Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain an American drama
thriller film called “Hide-and-Seek.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care!
Allison Callaway and her 9-year-old daughter,
Emily Callaway, are playing in a park together.
Alison’s husband and psychologist, Dr. David
Callaway, is there too; he watches them play.
At night, Allison and Emily play a game of
hide-and-seek... after which Allison tucks
Emily to bed.
Allison seems to be worried about something.
David asks her about it, but she dismisses
it.
Allison then goes to take a bath.
However, around two in the morning, David
wakes up to see Allison still not in bed.
He goes to check the bathroom, where he is
terrified to see Allison sitting on a bloodied tub
She had committed suicide by cutting her wrist.
Emily stands in the doorway as she watches
David hugging Allison’s body and crying.
Cut to a few days later, Emily is in a children’s
hospital and seems depressed.
David talks to his colleague and good friend,
Dr Katherine Carson, and decides that it would
be best if he and Emily moved to the countryside
for some time.
Katherine is close to Emily as well.
She hugs Emily and wishes her goodbye, and
they leave.
Emily brings her cat with her to the new place.
David and Emily are finally at their new home.
It lies in an area surrounded by woods and
is very quiet.
They are welcomed by a sheriff and the owner
of the house.
As they are looking around, Emily disappears.
They find her near the woods staring at something.
That night, Emily doesn’t eat anything and
insists on sleeping early.
David tries to cheer her up, but the girl
is traumatized by her mother’s death.
He then gives her a diary to write down her
feelings, after which Emily wishes her favorite
doll named Alex goodnight before going to
sleep.
The following day, David is unboxing his belongings
in his study room, when Emily goes into the
woods following a butterfly.
In the end, she sees a cave.
By the time David starts looking for her,
she is back.
But her favorite toy doll, Alex, is not.
Shortly, he and Emily leave to run some errands.
As David is pumping gas into his vehicle,
he sees a woman playing with a little girl.
Thinking that the little girl could become
friends with Emily, he introduces himself to them
The woman’s name is Elizabeth Young.
She seems to have charmed David.
He invites them to come over someday.
That night while tucking Emily to sleep, David
asks her about her doll , Alex... to which
she says that she doesn’t like her anymore.
She tells him that she has replaced Alex with
her new friend named Charlie.
When David questions her further about Charlie,
she says that he doesn’t like being talked about
David calls Katherine to tell her about the
incident.
They both agree that Charlie is an imaginary
friend Emily has created to cope with her trauma
The following day, David finds Alex in the
bin with her face distorted.
Later at dinner, David tries to talk to her
about Charlie.
At that time, she tells him that Charlie is
a lot of fun like her mommy used to be.
That night, he gets another nightmare.
He has been getting the same nightmare of
the New Year's Eve party that occurred the
night before Alison's death.
The nightmare wakes him up exactly at the
time he did when Allison died.
He hears a noise, and goes to check in the
bathroom to see the words “you let her die”.
The bathtub is filled, and Emily’s crayon
lay around.
He turns around and sees Emily behind him...
but when asked about it, Emily insists it
was Charlie who did it.
The following day, Elizabeth and her niece,
Amy, come over.
David introduces Amy to Emily, but she seems
to have no reaction.
As they play, Amy is eager to become friends,
so she hands her doll to Emily.
But when Emily returns it back, its face is
distorted like Alex’s was.
Emily tells Amy that she shouldn’t be here.
Feeling scared, they leave soon after.
When David asks Emily about Amy, she replies
she doesn’t need any new friends and that
Charlie is enough.
Later, Emily plays outside as David does the
dishes.
He sees a man sitting beside her, so he goes
out to check and finds that the man is their neighbor, Steven
They have an awkward conversation after which
David warns Emily not to talk to strangers.
Cut to that night, David hears Emily laugh,
but when he goes to check on her, she is alone.
He asks if Charlie is here, but Emily says
that he just left through the window.
David tries to talk to her about Charlie...
but Emily reveals that Charlie doesn’t like David
David writes all of this in his journal after
putting her to bed.
Later, we see Emily play hide-and-seek with
Charlie.
She goes out of her room, and look around
the house, to look for him.
She finds a door behind a closet.
It leads to a basement downstairs.
She walks there...still looking for him, then,
suddenly the lights go off, and she screams
in fear.
David quickly comes to get her.
She tells him that Charlie was hiding in the
dark.
The following day, Elizabeth comes over for
dinner.
Emily doesn’t seem to like her.
Elizabeth tries to have a conversation with
Emily and gives her some books to read.
However, Emily acts hostile towards her and
drops all the books to the floor.
Seeing this, David demands her to go to her
room.
Soon, Elizabeth leaves.
That night, David again wakes up exactly at
2:06.
There is a noise coming from the bathroom.
He goes in to check and sees the words “Now
look what you’ve done”.
The bathtub is full of dirty water.
As David goes in to drain it, he feels something
inside.
It is the dead body of the cat that lived
with them.
Furious, David goes to Emily’s room.
But Emily again insists that it was Charlie.
He then cleans up the mess in the bathroom.
The following day, Emily shows David pictures
she has drawn of Charlie and her mother.
David tries to tell her that Charlie is not
real, but Emily keeps on yelling his name.
That day, Katherine visits them.
Katherine is David’s good friend who is
very close to Emily.
Emily is very excited to meet her.
She suggests David to bring Emily back to
New York.
He tells her that he will consider it.
After she is gone, David goes to Emily’s
room and sees that she has drawn pictures
of her mother killing herself in the diary
he had given her.
Elizabeth comes over again that day, but David
doesn’t hear her knocking, so she comes
in and goes into Emily's room.
She has come to make amends with Emily, but
Emily tells her that she is playing hide-and-seek
with Charlie, and points at the closet.
As Elizabeth opens the closet, she is attacked
by someone and falls down the windows.
After few hours, a sheriff comes over to ask
about Elizabeth.
The sheriff informs David that he had found
Elizabeth's car crashed down the road, and
her niece told him that she had come here.
But David knows nothing about the incident.
The sheriff then asks Emily about her, but
she lies and tells him that she hasn’t seen her
After he is gone, David senses something wrong.
He sees the window broken.
Emily is crying hysterically.
She shows him the time.
It is exactly 2:06 again.
David rushes to the bathroom to see some words
written on the shower curtain.
“Can you see now?”.
He opens it and is terrified to see a dead
Elizabeth lying in the tub.
He rushes back to a crying Emily, but she
still insists that it was Charlie.
She says she cannot tell David anything about
him.
Then, David locks her in the room and rushes
out.
Shortly after, we see someone open the door
for her.
Emily then calls Katherine to tell her she
doesn’t want to play with Charlie anymore.
David, on the other hand, decides to get rid
of Elizabeth’s body.
But when he goes into the bathroom, the body
is already gone.
Emily says that Charlie just left with it.
This has gone too far.
David is now furious and is determined to
find out who Charlie really is.
He runs outside to search for him.
Suddenly, his neighbor Steven appears behind
him, and demands to see Emily because he has
heard noises from their house.
David attacks him assuming that this whole
time.. he is Charlie.
He rushes back to his home and locks the doors.
He tells him to stay away from his daughter.
Emily hugs him in fear and begs not to make
her see Charlie again.
David then walks into his study room, where
he is surprised to see that none of the boxes
have been opened since they moved here.
Even the journals are blank.
He is in shock because he has been in the
study writing his journal several times after the move
Suddenly, everything comes back to him.
We see that the person Emily met at the cave
that day was David.
He realizes that he has dissociative identity
disorder, and Charlie is not imaginary at
all: "Charlie" is David himself.
Whenever "Charlie" would emerge, David would
be in his study.
He also finally recalls the New Year's Eve
party the night before his wife's death.
He had caught Alison making out with another
guest.
"Charlie" was created as a way to express
David's rage so that he could murder his wife,
something the docile David was too decent
to do.
Emily knew the entire time about her father's
split personality but did not tell him, because
she was unsure which personality murdered
her mother until "Charlie" killed Elizabeth.
Every time Charlie comes out, David doesn’t
remember anything.
When David comes to realize this, Charlie’s
personality completely takes over him.
He tells Emily that Daddy is gone.
Luckily, the neighbour has called the sheriff,
who comes to check on David.
He finds Emily in her room when the lights
go off.
The sheriff goes downstairs to check.
However, he is killed by Charlie.
Charlie senses that Emily doesn’t like him
anymore.
He starts a game of hide-and-seek and starts
to count.
Emily rushes to her room.
Just then, Katherine arrives.
As she moves down the basement, Charlie appears
behind her and pushes her down.
He locks her there, where she finds the sheriff's
dead body.
Emily, on the other hand, locks herself inside
her room.
Charlie breaks the door open, but Emily has
already snuck out through the window and is
running away to the woods.
She hides in the cave.
Kathrine takes the Sheriff’s gun and runs
to save Emily.
Before Charlie can get to Emily, Katherine
reaches the cave as well.
But Charlie pretends to be David ,and when
she lets her guards down , he attacks her again
Emily stops Charlie from killing Kathrine
by distracting his attention to herself.
As Charlie moves closer to kill Emily, Kathrine
comes in between them and shoots him to death.
Cut to a few months later, Emily and Kathrine
have moved back to New York.
They live happily now.
The movie ends as the camera zooms into Emily’s
drawing of herself and Kathrine, where she
has two faces suggesting that she might also
have two personalities like her father.
Now, for the explanation of the movie.
It is clear by the end of the movie that David
and Charlie are the same person.
David has a mental disorder called dissociative
identity disorder, which is ironic because
David himself is a psychiatrist.
When Charlie murdered Allison that night,
David was unknown to any of this.
Even when they moved houses, Charlie did not
go away.
Every time Charlie arrives, David is seen
in his study room writing or listening to
music.
But he had never even unboxed his belongings
in that room.
Even his notebook is empty.
This suggests that he hallucinated all of
it to avoid coming face to face with his other personality
In the movie, we also see Emily being hostile;
she even purposely disfigured the face of
Amy's doll.
There are 3 possible reasons.
The first reason is that she might do it out
of dislike for Amy's aunt, Elizabeth.
Second, she might do it in order to frighten
Amy into staying away, so that Charlie wouldn't
hurt her.
The third possibility is that Emily was displaying
the pathological side of herself.
That’s my explanation for the movie “Hide-and-Seek.”
Subscribe for more videos like this, turn
on notifications, and leave a like to help
the channel out.
Thank you for watching.